---
layout: post
title: Not So Big
created: 1194847623
categories: []
---
Berkeley is big. There is not too much doubt about that, unless you’re the high-stamina multi-tasking non-breathing 25-unit engineering student on an adrenaline and caffeine rush 24/7 who thinks covering the distance from Clark Kerr to Etcheverry Hall is about as much effort as getting out of bed (if you ever sleep, of course). Which, on foresight, is rather a lot of effort nowadays for most on campus. (Don’t deny it: you do hit the ‘snooze’ button often. Yes, you do.) 

      Nonetheless, for the average Berkeley student, moving diagonally across campus is like a week of successive technical midterms. Personally, I – an international student – was overwhelmed by the panoramic interlinking cornucopia of tarmac and vehicles that greeted me when I disembarked at the international airport. And as I lived through culture shock while settling down at Berkeley, I moved all around campus (Is the plural of campus ‘campi’? Word denies it) and chanced upon Sproul Plaza and Telegraph Avenue, epicenters of activity, teeming everywhere with humans, animals, and those in-between. I stood there in the middle, stunned. I had not seen this many people in my entire life in a small country and high school, tucked away across the Atlantic with a minuscule population. Berkeley is big, but in the grand scheme of things (otherwise known as the ‘theory of everything’), Berkeley is also relatively tiny. 

      Some time ago, on one of those rare relaxing weekends I get after a week of successive technical midterms, I had to travel on errands from Bancroft to University, and decided on my first journey on the 51. On the bus, I sat beside someone I vaguely remembered seeing on campus. I didn’t struggle to remember who she was, since memories return when you don’t struggle to remember them (go figure), and then I remembered that she was behind one of those perpetual tables on Sproul, and that I had inquired at her table. I hoped she would recognize me, so that I could talk with her rather than attempting to contemplate the meaning of life (I’m a friendly guy), but she preferred her phone. And she was still on her phone when I took the 51 back home. Yes, we disembarked at different stations, presumably did different things, and presumably took different paths to pursue whatever we were supposed to do. But, through some twist of fate, we were placed together in the same bus back home. To some, this might be a sign of some sort of love – ‘at first sight’ or ‘boo to-be’ or whatever relevant word is doing the rounds (I dearly hope not – it’s not a good sign when your future other is talking on the phone the whole time), but to me, it seemed similar to what I experience daily on campus, but never completely acknowledge. 

      I see my acquaintances everyday, at random times and at random places. I see them when I amble near the woods near the West Crescent; I see them when I am trying to avoid the flyers at Sproul Plaza. I hear them calling when I struggle to digest the ‘food’ at Crossroads; I call out to them as I scramble across Memorial Glade. I sense them when I make my way blindly to my 8 o’clock class, and back from my 5 o’clock seminar. Every time it strikes me subtly that among the teeming mass of fifty thousand people roaming all over Cal, no matter where I find myself lost and whatever academically-induced condition I am in, I always manage to bump into someone I know. Call it kismet, the freshman eagerness to make friends, probability calculus or even a wormhole, but it always makes my day. They say Berkeley is big: what do ‘they’ know?
