---
layout: post
title: Leap of Faith
created: 1196551010
categories: []
---
This article was written by the author for <i>California Engineer</i>. For this, and for other articles and papers relating to various fields of engineering, pick up a copy today. Stalls are around the engineering campus. Get your semester fix of latest developments in engineering by undergraduates, and even contribute your own!

You pore over endless documents of experiments and tables of data, scribbling impossible conformations and diagrams, trying to connect the real with the theoretical. The crackling firelight has its toll, and you doze off, or perhaps you enter a different world. Where a snake slithers up to you and curls around, biting its own tail, spinning itself around, turning the wheels in your head. Something clicks; you wake up; you have just discovered the structure of benzene.

	Admit it: you have them too. Those moments where you wake up in the middle of the night, switch on the lamp regardless of your roommate’s remonstrations – wait, you’re an engineer, make that ‘your three roommates’ – and scribble down the proof to the final question in your EE20N problem set: that same problem that caused you to sleep initially. And though you have not discovered the structure of benzene, you have been there: the world where all connections are known, the utopia of discoveries yet to be made, of creatures and molecules yet to be seen. This, I think, is the hallmark of any engineer: this leap of logic. It is very ironic, this leap of logic: Given how engineering is so scientific and pragmatic, it is astonishing that the main ingredient driving a process is intuition, an incorporeal fragment of thought that leaps a discoverer from step to step, something scientifically inexplicable as of yet. Electrons and synapses and neurons, all conspire in this beautiful dance that makes engineering want to writhe and write award-winning patents or grade-grabbing solution sets.

	I have had these visitations, and being the good engineer that I am, I have outlined three possible stimuli, in a futile attempt at scientific analysis. Bear in mind that these are merely hypotheses, but you are welcome to try them out and tell me how it goes. First, the engineer must stare. Staring is good, staring is important: stare at the problem on the chalkboard, paper, and bathroom wall; rub eyes and stare; rinse, lather, repeat. I believe that staring causes the eyes to receive light bounced and strengthened from the document of interest, illuminating, as it were, unexplored parts of the brain. Second, the engineer must scribble. Get tons of scratch paper or green boards, and write your money’s worth of ink or chalk out. It matters a lot what you scribble; scribbling keeps your hands busy so your brain can think and ponder, spitting out random facts that get in the way. I solved my last computer science homework set with one page of pipeline diagrams and three pages of random Doctor Who quotes. Third, the engineer must be sleepy (Well, this is a condition all engineers are in anyway, so it is not hard to achieve). When sleepy, the brain switches into the same mode that produces dreams, those weird combinations of scenarios otherwise not thought of. However, my analysis is glaringly incomplete, and I think I will leave it so.

	At the end of this digression, this point must be made: engineering is founded on imagination, and it must remain so. Any attempt to analyze the source and the essence of imagination jovial or otherwise, will, I believe, destroy the joy and the beauty of scientific discovery (so thank me if your day is ruined). Many other engineers will tell you that beauty is in equations, processes and simplicity, but I think the most beautiful thing is the inexplicable dance that produced them. Because I have seen the light, and it is beautiful. 
