---
layout: post
title: Punished for Legal Compliance
created: 1194505718
categories: []
---
In a harshly-worded, ad-hominem-saturated and racism-filled [tirade against Sunnyvale-based Yahoo, Inc. and its top executives](http://www.betanews.com/article/Rep_Lantos_to_Yahoo_Morally_You_Are_Pygmies/1194467131) (Chief counsel Michael Callahan and CEO Jerry Yang), California Representative Tom Lantos blasted the executives for complying with a legally-binding order to procure information about a suspect of political sedition--and in the process calling Yang a "pigmy"--[sending the company's stocks down nearly 25% from the two-week high.](http://www.usatoday.com/money/industries/technology/2007-11-07-yahoo-china_N.htm) (Just for reference, congressmen Lantos and Schumer are well-known racists)

Why Yahoo? Google is not any better in promoting the flow of information in China--it opted for a path of self-censorship in order to secure entry in the world's second--and soon to be first--largest market. Microsoft is certainly no better than either Yahoo or Google in that respect. Yahoo's not even in the Chinese market anymore--it transferred its Yahoo, China operations to Alibaba Group years ago. So why is Lantos so fired up about Yahoo in particular, and especially so soon after the return of Jerry Yang, who by the way is an American citizen? Have the racist undertones become painfully obvious yet?

The hypocrisy is unbound. The accusation that Yahoo was a "co-conspirator" of human-rights violations in a foreign, independent nation and market is coming from the same representative who defended the Guantanamo Bay prison amid criticisms of our own share of human rights abuses. The criticism is coming from the same Congress that authorized Bush's warrant-less domestic spying programs. That inevitably leads to the following questions: why aren't they criticizing the companies that cooperated with the program? What gives the American Congress the right to encourage insurgency in China after pledging to fight terrorism? Would Congress give the same treatment to American companies that comply with legal subpoenas here? Why wouldn't it? What gives it the right to criticize a company for "cooperating" with human rights violations when it authorized a war that left tens of thousands dead, millions of families devastated, trillions of dollars in debt, yet at the same time refused to fund--using less than 3% of the war funds--health insurance for underprivileged children?

Despite these demonstrations of hypocrisy, Congress continues to press Yahoo to endorse a bill to "ban companies from disclosing to governments such as China information identifying individual Internet users", "prohibit U.S. Internet service providers from blocking online content of U.S. government-financed sites and services" and "mandate that companies disclose to a new State Department office any websites they block from foreign users"--a bill that is clearly against its interests. What gives America the right to meddle in another country's internal affairs? What gives it the right to criticize companies for obeying the laws of the market they are in? Our inability to control our unbound desire for power was what led us into Vietnam and Iraq, and neither succeeded in what they were designed to do; instead, a majority of the world hates us because of our inability to make peace.

Even if we were to disregard Congress's less-than-reasonable criticisms, we would see that what Yahoo has done was more than correct. The journalist knew what he was getting into. He knew his chances of getting caught and becoming imprisoned were high, yet he still lead a life of political activism, against the wishes of the authorities, wishing for stability and peace. Therefore, it was not Yahoo's fault that the journalist was charged with passing on state secrets and subsequently jailed. (Perhaps herein lies the reason why Congress so ferociously attacked Yahoo--it may have been the beneficiary of Shi Tao, the activist) What if the government wanted details to persecute against a child-porn or software piracy ring? In those cases, clearly, Congress would support it. The selective criticism proves that the political nature of this case is what drove Congress to action and inflammation.

Additionally, it was in  China and hence its operations in China were bound by the laws of China, and in order to remain in China to do business in China, it must obey the laws and orders of the authorities in China. That's just truism, though; you would realize that if you were to replace China with America, but the double-standard Lantos and his fellow congressmen are so emboldened to hold makes it impossible for them to see the validity of that statement. Callahan made absolutely clear that he knew the dangers of noncompliance in his statement that he "emphasized [his] understanding that failure by the Yahoo China operation in Beijing to comply with lawful orders from government authorities may have subjected the Chinese employees of that company to civil and criminal penalties, including imprisonment." What he leaves implicit is the business side of the coin--that noncompliance may lead to Yahoo's losing access to the entire market of 1.3 billion people.

What China does with the information it collects is its own business. Yahoo has no ethical or legal responsibilities in that respect, because it has no power or influence to do anything to change that. If Congress wants that addressed, it should not put its best companies at an uncomfortable position on the political tight-rope, and instead clean up its own house and proceed with diplomacy and dialog--clearly, accusing Yahoo of being an accomplice in human rights abuses has no weight when you detain, interrogate and abuse "suspects" without a warrant and when you surreptitiously collect data on your own citizens without a warrant.

Hypocrisy does not get you anywhere in persuading others to change; it only puts you further behind. And Congress, please, don't you have something more important and immediate to do? 
