---
layout: post
title: Insider Trading Sucks
created: 1192301529
categories: []
---
In the past six months, the housing market collapsed, the financial market became five times as volatile, the mortgage market bled red, yet Angelo R. Mozilo, the CEO of mortgage lender Countrywide Financial, <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/11/business/11land.html" target="_blank">gained 132 million dollars from exercising his stock options.</a> Ordinarily, we would just dismiss this as another case of excessive corporate executive compensation packages--recall HP's Fiorina's "You're fired" package exceeding twenty million dollars in cash and Yahoo's Terry Semel's options package that made him the Valley's best-compensated CEO, despite Yahoo's stagnant growth and market-share loss under his reign.

But the Countrywide issue is different. As one of the largest mortgage lenders in the country, the company suffered far more losses than HP and Yahoo ever did under Fiorina and Semel; yet, Mozilo didn't seem to be hurt at all. Stock options are meant to align the CEO's interests with the company's interests because the CEO can only cash in when he successfully manages the company. Hence, it would not make sense for him to squeeze so much money out of the stock that has already lost over half its value. How did he do it? "After starting a plan in October 2006, Mr. Mozilo twice raised the number of shares that could be sold: once in December 2006, when Countrywide stock was $40.50, and again in February, when it hit a high of $45.03."

Executives are restricted from participating in the market the way we retail investors are because--the reason should be fairly obvious--they know more about the direction of their companies than we do. Hence, under SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) limitations, executives may only set up automatic orders days or months ahead of the time of execution and provide a reasonable explanation of why they want to sell--to even out the information deficit/gradient. It would seem like such a fortuitous "coincidence" for Mozilo to suddenly increase his share sales just before the stock plummeted. Sure, if it were just 12 million or so, we can probably surmise that he wanted to buy a new mansion or to make other luxury purchases, but he sold as much as he could--well over 100 million dollars. I don't think he was profit-taking; I think he was acting on knowledge outsiders did not have, and selfishly undertook plans to protect his value, despite the ailing market his company found itself in.

It's only right that someone (in this case Richard H. Moore, the state treasurer of North Carolina) wrote a letter to the S.E.C. chairman, Christopher Cox, questioning Mozilo's stock-sale adjustments, adding that "as an investor and a Countrywide shareholder, I [Moore] was shocked to learn that C.E.O. Angelo Mozilo apparently manipulated his trading plans to cash in, just as the subprime crisis was heating up and Countrywide’s fortunes were cooling off. The timing of these sales and the changes to the trading plans raise serious questions about whether this is a mere coincidence." He's right; Mozilo's sales are rather suspicious.

Yet, the guy still does not get the message. He plans to sell "almost all of his remaining shares this week before his October 2006 selling program expires at the end of the month," despite his admission that the options don't expire until the end of 2011. After that, he will have no interest still aligned with the company's. In general, an investor would only sell if he were unsure about its future prospects. If Mozilo had any confidence in himself, he would have kept the options: 4 years is a long time to fix prevalent problems and to grow in new directions. Is this a sign of his lack of faith in his company? I think so.

Disclaimer: I am ignoring the 300 million dollars in share sales since 2005 because the issue of insider trading is not the same as the issue of excessive compensation; sure, he got too many stock options, but Countrywide was making money in 2005. The difference is that he made even more money off of a struggling company (in 2007) than in 2005. That's a clear sign that something's wrong.

It seems as if the only way to get rich in the US is to lure uninformed investors into purchasing your company's stock, then promptly dumping your own holdings. It sucks to be a victim of insider trading; I sure hope that this issue is resolved by the SEC. (BTW: I don't have any Countrywide shares)
