---
layout: post
title: Monopolized Information?
created: 1197772198
categories: []
---
Google is testing a new service called "Knol" that may become a <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/15/technology/15web.html" rel="external">future competitor</a> to de-facto online knowledge repository, Wikipedia. The difference is that "unlike Wikipedia, which allows anyone to edit an entry, only the author of a “knol,” as the pages in the service would be called, would be allowed to edit"--so in effect, in order to represent the wide variety of perspectives, "different authors could have competing pages on the same topic." Obviously, this move has caused some critics to predict that the "shift could compromise Google’s objectivity in presenting search results":
<blockquote>“At some point, Google crosses the line, where they are not only a search engine, but also a content provider,” Mr. Sullivan said. Technically speaking, he said, authors, not Google, would create Knol pages. “But it matters how it appears,” he said. “I do a search on Google, I go to some place that Google hosts and I also find Google ads.”

What’s more, Mr. Sullivan said, Google’s goal of making Knol pages easy to find on search engines could conflict with its need to remain unbiased. Google already carries content generated by users in a variety of services, including YouTube, the photo storage site Picasa and Blogger.</blockquote>
What do you guys think? A single destination for the combined perspectives of thousands of contributors or thousands of (obviously more biased) pages of individual contributors? Personally, I would prefer the former.
