---
layout: post
title: 'Milking it For What It''s Worth:  "Why are we so blind to see, that the ones
  we''re hurting are you and me?"'
created: 1191569619
categories: []
---
I remember this title being the topic of a parliamentary debate round back in sophomore or junior year in high school.  It was a very interesting topic, and while I forget whether I won or lost the round, the point in this is that this statement is exactly what the multicultural center at Santa Clara University (SCU) represents.

Santa Clara has had a long tradition of granting minority rights.  The Multicultural Center (MCC), got it's start back in the 1960s as a single club of the Black Student Union (now known as Igwebuike, meaning friendship in Nigerian).  The club eventually expanded through a series of several initiatives known as Unity 1, 2, and 3, all of which were spaced several years apart and included the struggle to get rights to minority students such as Asians, Indians, Arab Americans, Filipinos, among other cultures.  In fact, looking at the preserved Santa Clara newspapers of the early 1980s and 1990s, you can see marches of what happened.  From the looks of those, it seems as if SCU was a place of action with compassion, with a deep rooted faith in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King that "we shall overcome".

In the contemporary age of SCU, it appears that the once-disadvantaged have overcome, but in their own way -- a way of exclusion.  This exclusion remains a hush amongst the hallways of SCU, but is relatively well known to those who are outside of the MCC, as well as those who have once been in the MCC.  This exclusion, hidden by the supposed flame of welcome and safety to the outside world, is reflected in the antecdotes provided by students of both color and majority, who claim that those sitting in the MCC office consistently talk to those who are minority status, while in the same effect, ignoring those who are white, who make up 60% of the school.  I will address these statements in the following two arguments:

This exlcusion is detrimental for the most obvious of reasons.  First, it contradicts the lesson that was learned over forty years ago during the 1960s, when minorities themselves were excluded from public places, and put in their own place.  By effectively excluding people of all walks of life, INCLUDING the majority population at school, it creates an uneeded bubble around the MCC, and forces the white population to learn about minority cultures in a potentially unwanted setting -- the classroom.  If minorities here at SCU really wondered why whites misunderstood them and make false assumptions regarding their culture, they needn't look far as how they have polarized the student population.

Second, this exclusion contradicts the jesuit experience, and as a whole creates a gap amongst the minority and the majority.  Observing my fellow Chinese Student Association (CSA) officers for the past year has proved this point very effectively, as I see these people hang out with only what seems to be their kind -- the Asian core.  And while I found this behavior to be very approving in high school (more as a joke), the need to leave that high school joke is an action that must be undertook for one to grow up.  Latching oneself to the same group on a consistent basis leaves for an inability to create conversation with other cultures, learn about other faiths, and expand one's horizons (think why religious factions fight -- it always comes down to the lack of knowledge to the other and the assumption that each group thinks that THEY are right...). For those who grew up in Asian households hearing their parents recommend that Asian was the way to go when it came to making friends, this mentality makes sense.  But honestly, in every sense of the argument, the world is not entirely Asian -- surprisingly to some people, the United States is less than 5% Asian, and in some senses, CSA and the rest of the MCC needs to learn that.  Denying oneself the chance to learn is a disease in itself.

The Multicultural experience is a rich one, or supposedly so.  I look to the comparison of UC Berkeley, where the case of Asian-American issues is one of great admiration to me.  Why?  Because they care.  Here at SCU, a view into the MCC is a shallow one at best, with issues explored much less than the tip of a Pearl Milk Tea straw.  My experience as CSA secretary last year taught me to not step beyond my bounds, not because I did not have authority, but because marketing and cultural integrity might be at stake.  To say the very least, I was disappointed, from the top down.  It also showed me that the MCC is more about fun, and less about educating and learning from the masses.

I know not every university is like this, but in the case of SCU and the MCC, I am left to wonder, "Why are we so blind to see, that the ones we're hurting are you and me?"?  I think the MCC can do better, and it can.  I left because I was disgusted with the results, and the cliquey nature of the organization.  Do I have hope that it can become an organization of education, rather than one of ignorance and hubris?  Of course I do, as it is part of my university.  But a part of me thinks that the status quo is here to stay.
