---
layout: post
title: The Olympic-Sized Quagmire
created: 1207894517
categories: []
---
As a Chinese-American, I will be the first to admit that I think that the Chinese government is overly flawed beyond what I would like to see. The government admittedly does things that are beyond questionable and finds itself enacting policies that make the most layman of laymen wonder what is in the tea that these Communist politburo drink. Make no mistake, government is not perfect. Name me one, and I think I'll buy you food for the rest of your life.

Acceptable are the protests that occur on the streets daily where the torch passes through. Understandably so, when given a venue to voice their opinions about issues relating to fellow humankind, one of the right things to do is to make a point to correct those issues. After all, to quell the rights of someone who deserves them as much as you do is just downright shameful, and no one deserves to be denied the right to a life, period.

Unacceptable are the protests that have occurred in France and Britain. From street riots to numerous arrests, this is not what the Olympics ought to be about. What protesters need to realize is that China, while a flawed nation through investment in Darfur and handling of Tibet, is not the only one out there. After all, if we are protesting China, why didn't we protest Australia for its treatment of the Aborigines? Why don't people protest the United States about its involvement in Iraq, Gitmo, and numerous torture camps? Why didn't we protest Japan about its past war crimes in 1998? I think the simple response to this all is that people forget the past, and that when a nation rises up as fast as China has, the country is perceived a threat. After all, when a nation purchases T-bills from your country at an alarming rate and becoming a fast consumer nation, one's first inkling is to wonder what happened.

Unacceptable are also the calls for boycott. The games are not just about the sport, but about individuals as well. This is the greatest stage that anyone could compete on, and to be able to compete for Olympic Gold is a standard in itself. By denying the right for individuals to go, you are not only throwing away four years of hard work and practice, you are also squelching dreams that these individuals have had for years. Those who were left off the 1980 team and denied a chance at Olympic glory can tell you more than enough about their missed chance.

The bottom line is this: China is always going to be China no matter what. It's been an inwardly seeing nation since the start, and Western media has always bashed China for what it seems to not do, rather than what it does. The calls to protest are founded on incidents that have happened. However, the calls to boycott are absolutely ludicrous because they not only deny individuals the chance to complete a dream, but also let the world gather together to celebrate the games that we can all relate to. So vent if you must for not being able to see Tiananmen Square on NBC; it's understandable. Extinguishing the Olympic flame and all the meaning that it carries however, is just far too much.
