---
layout: post
title: Las Vegas Diary
created: 1199616245
categories: []
---
Hi all!

Belated Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! How are you? It has been a long while since I last corresponded with you, and I hope everything is all right on your end. I write to you from the … well, at this moment, windy town of Las Vegas.

I am here because it was expensive to keep flying in and out of Oman, especially for a winter vacation that lasted only three weeks, and so I thought it would be exotic (and definitely cheaper) to spend my vacation at Saju’s place, Saju being my brother’s ex-classmate, whose family moved over to Nevada because Saju’s mother had obtained a job over here. It has been a different kind of vacation, different than I expected, but different in a good way.

I learned quite a bit more about human stereotypes: mention Las Vegas to anyone, and it seems that most people seem to associate it with gambling and sex. Well, if that’s the case, I don’t seem to be seeing a lot of it. I have been living in the residential area of Las Vegas, and it does not seem to be filled with gambling and licentious people. Not yet, anyway.

‘Course, that was not what I first thought when I arrived in Las Vegas airport on the 22nd December. It was huge, so huge that we all had to take a periodic tram, winding through the city freeways, just to move from the terminals to reach the carousels. It was also quite impossible not to stumble over the large numbers of slot machines that packed the airport, the airport, from end to end. The parking lot was the size of a hypermarket, floors and floors of cars stacked up upon each other. To me, a person from a country where buildings seldom reach beyond ten storeys, I guess it would be understandable for me to be awed at such sights, but that was nothing compared to the bright, flashing, even vulgar lights of downtown Las Vegas. Large people winked down at me from dynamic billboards; a pyramid rose above insignificant cars to shine a cone of light into the clouds above. Bare ladies and men and profligate puns beckoned to me from signage; several life-size constructions of world-famous monuments lined the never-ending roads and traffic. However, all these began to fade away conspicuously as we drove on, until finally we reached the less well-lighted residential areas of town, the unbalanced electrical power ratio very obvious, and soon we made our way to my ‘home’ for the next three weeks: an apartment in a secure apartment complex, surrounded by a not-so-secure neighborhood.

Life in Las Vegas so far, has been a stream of monotony, burst frequently by peaks of excitement. Two days after I arrived in Sin City, I was present at a Christmas party, held by the members of the local church community comprised entirely of South Indian families. Though the language was a barrier, a lot of it was thankfully in English, but unthankfully, a lot of the partygoers were elementary school children. The only other person my age was in college, pursuing a pre-medical degree, and turned out to be on my friend’s list because of Saju, even though we had hardly talked; her parents owned the house where the party was held; her brother was with a group of younger teens. The younger children turned out to be really spunky though; gender pride resulted in the girls giggling their way in a bedroom, while the boys wrestled over the Playstation controls in the playing room. A lot of the children came up to Saju and me, and prodded us with questions and jokes and stories that made me wonder how my elders managed me when I was a kid. I managed to repay the hospitality of my host family by helping them win second place in a quiz. The party was also a different experience because I got to realize that, given the place we are in is so distant from what most of us called home, it didn’t seem so. As the party began to wind down, the adults collapsed into a traditional drinking song, without drinking, and a classic game of Indian <i>antakshari</i>(a musical game). As I listened to them, sitting on the couch reading a book (this was during a lull, when the girls focused more on their chatter than on their book-loving elders), my brain focused less on the theory of quantum physics, and more on nostalgia; the notes of Malayalam songs and chatter seemed to drag me back home, back to my interactions with my own South Indian friends, and I missed them terribly. In that small house in the American town of Las Vegas, I was actually in a small house in Oman. And indeed, some of the Malayalee families who had migrated here fit the same profile as Saju’s family, went through the same agency, and came from Oman, so it was interesting to talk about Omani places and things with them. We also had a party (the family’s first party in the apartment) on New Year’s Eve, also celebrating Saju’s birthday that coincided with New Year’s Day, and another opportunity to sink into nostalgia mode, although this was mainly because some of the kids and I proceeded to watch <i>Mr. India</i> videos on my laptop (<i>Mr. India</i> being the name of a classic Indian family movie).

Perhaps the most defining moment of my stay here has been the journey to Mount Charleston, a local mountain resort, merely two days ago, because of snow. Actual, honest-to-goodness snow. I, Jonathan Kotker, have been witness to two extremes of weather: the heat of the desert, and now the cold of the snow. It was very exciting, and I regressed back to a child again. The trip was organized, again, by the same church community. We drove up first to a mountain lodge, 7000 feet above sea level, only to find that our access to the snow-covered coniferous forest was restricted. That didn’t stop us; we drove all the way to a fenced precipice, from which could be seen the most beautiful sight that I have ever seen. Down below, or perhaps it was high above, white snow-speckled mountains stood tall in the horizon, dominating and intimidating, cones and coned, laid out across a white foggy carpet. The precipice had been the site of nuclear testing, tourist visits, and that day, a snow fight, my first snow fight. I can still feel my hands crunching the snow, shaping them into a ball, throwing it to whomever. The tingle on my back, as I got hit by many snowballs, remained as we relocated to a sloped area, and intensified as I rushed down three slopes on a cookie tray, shrieking in joy to the sky, tumbling and falling and rolling and laughing and doing it all over again. It is still a very real memory to me, as I lie on the bed, in the same manner that I slid down any slope. I wish the bed could move.

I thrilled in the experience of the very thing Oman needs every summer. My unhardy gloves tore and fell, but that didn’t stop me from making a big snowball to douse Sanju (Saju’s younger brother) with, or from building and breaking snowmen, or from playing ‘snow-cricket’. All around us, clouds gathered, creating a fluffy canopy, and I hoped for snowfall. We also visited a ski resort later on, but the high prices and the lack of personal equipment restricted us to a group photo, but I drank in my first sights of snowboards, skis, cables and cable cars, and youth zooming down the slopes at breakneck speed.

It snowed the next day in Mount Charleston; it said so on the news. It rained where I was, sadly.

The rest of my time here at Las Vegas was spent at home, reading books that I borrowed from the nearby library, or watching <i>Doctor Who</i> episodes with Saju and Sanju (who were supposed to be exposing me to animé, rather than me exposing them to science fiction), or walking around the apartment complex in the cold nipping night, or ambling around the surrounding streets and neighborhoods in the cold nipping afternoon, or working on my website, or cracking the Rubik’s cube (I can successfully solve two layers now), or learning sign language from a library bookmark.

I hope all of your winter breaks have been fun and refreshing so far! :)
