---
layout: post
title: Nearsighted Fiscal Policy Undercuts Future Growth
created: 1201497671
categories: []
---
Once again, our elected officials propose a debt-funded tax rebate as the remedy to all our economic woes; the belief is that a 600-800 dollar check to every American (Does that include permanent residents? What about illegal immigrants?) will ostensibly prop up consumption--which represents an overwhelming majority of America's gross domestic product. But we taxpayers are left with the following questions: How are we paying for this expensive stimulus package? How will it affect economic growth in the short term and long term?--Namely, are there any major long-term consequences we should worry about? Or, put another way, will the package do what it's intended to do?

With the economy slowing, chances are slim that we will fund the package with increases in tax revenue, and with the current policymakers, cutting extraneous government programs and earmarks is just as unlikely. Hence, the only way to fund this costly proposal is to borrow more--this is money that our generation must must later pay and sacrifice. Can all this debt (Over 9.2 trillion dollars) be good?

The United States is already a net debtor nation; we owe trillions of dollars to countries like China, Singapore and Saudi Arabia, and each of those countries have enormous national sovereign funds ready to buy up productive American industries, making us progressively more dependent on influential and often politically-motivated foreigners to maintain economic growth. Obviously, that cannot be sustained forever; sooner or later (and it's more likely to be sooner), there will be nothing attractive for foreigners to buy--then how are we going to finance our ever-more-expensive projects and packages?

In the past decade, China has financed much of our public debts by purchasing low-yielding government bonds; but it has since realized that it can accrue significantly larger returns by forming a sovereign fund to manage and invest the nation's 1.3 trillion dollars in foreign reserves, much like Singapore's widely-acknowledged Temasek. That withdrawal of immense funds will only mean that interest rates for U.S. debt will shoot up and that each dollar the U.S. government borrows is one fewer dollar for the private economy to borrow for investment, and natural interest rates would increase (Economists call this "crowding out") Essentially, Congress would be taking away investment for the future to fund an unproven stimulus package for the present. If you will, this is similar to handing your spendthrift wife or girlfriend a 600 dollar check to spend at will, fully aware of who will ultimately be the one financing the purchases.

Considering all the aforementioned consequences of implementing this package, we'd think that it can provide significant benefits--but does it? How different is sending every American a debt-financed 600 dollar check from printing and distributing 600 dollars per person? Consumption is likely to increase, but so will inflation--after all, that's what happens when your primary currency becomes increasingly devalued.

So if the 150-billion-dollar package is not the solution, what is? Encouraging investment in our shared future; we must sacrifice now to ensure a better future. America's main problem is not necessarily the credit crisis--in reality, that is just a consequence of our root problem, which is that we spend too much. American consumers in general are the only ones in the industrial world who spend more than they earn, meaning our savings rate (our investment in our future) is negative. Hence, giving consumers more impetus to spend rather than save (which is what this bill hopes for) acts against what should be our long-term habits.

Are you worried now about the short-term effects of transferring GDP from consumption to investment? You shouldn't be; sure, our economy may fall a little bit more in the near term, but it will definitely come back stronger and more resilient. That's what we want.
