---
layout: post
title: Dear WFP Web Content Manager
created: 1203184796
categories: []
---
Your entire organization (the United Nations World Food Program<s>me</s>) has been deceived into believing the [very words you muttered](node/207#comment-369), and due to the "credibility" of the WFP, the same blind optimism has dragged the rest of the Internet community with it into a state of utter ignorance. Yet, your dear organization (WFP) continues to spread the [deception](http://wfp.org/english/?ModuleID=137&Key=2740).
<h3>My Defense</h3>
You argued that I must take down my AutoClicker for three "reasons". In response, I will argue why each is fallacious beyond doubt.
<ol>
<li>It limits the number of people who can play the game:
<blockquote>By overloading the FreeRice servers, the Autoclicker is making it more difficult for would-be supporters to play the game, learn vocabulary and, ultimately, click to donate.</blockquote>
Really? I didn't notice that the FreeRice servers became any slower at all. Its ability to serve was not diminished by my one-day experiment. That kind of language can scare Internet novices, but you chose the wrong audience to target.</li>
<li>It weakens efforts to raise awareness of global hunger:
<blockquote>...a computer programme can never replace the real long-term benefit of FreeRice.com: raising global awareness of hunger among millions of real people. One of WFP’s biggest battles in its efforts to feed the hungry is getting the issue on the agenda: it is a little known fact that hunger kills more people every year than tuberculosis, AIDS and malaria combined (a World Health Organization statistic). At the moment, by blocking the FreeRice server, your programme is denying people the right to learn about the world’s hunger problem – and also the right to play the game.</blockquote>
Be honest: how many people who have played the FreeRice vocabulary games need to be reminded that millions worldwide are surviving in sub-optimal conditions? Claiming that FreeRice raised awareness for world hunger is as silly as claiming that Facebook raised awareness of the Internet (Wow, what's that? Should we ask Al Gore? I've actually met the real inventor of the Internet who is now the chief Internet Evangelist at Google).

Oh, again, as I've explained above, my application has nowhere near the level of sophistication needed to "block the FreeRice server", so claiming that it denies people the right to learn about the world's hunger problems and to play the game is quite a strong assumption.</li>
<li>It is based on a false premise --- that FreeRice is a scam:
<blockquote>WFP is an official partner of FreeRice and fully endorses the work of John Breen. Each month, Mr.Breen donates the cash equivalent of the grains collected on FreeRice.com to our organisation. The rice is paid for by the advertisers whose names appear on the bottom of the vocabulary screen. 

Mr. Breen has used WFP's standard costs to calculate the value of the rice raised and the number of beneficiaries. These WFP costs include the value of the rice purchased and the associated costs, such as transport, storage, distribution, etc, to deliver the rice to our beneficiaries. John runs his site on his own. It's true that he is not registered as a charity, but he runs FreeRice "at no profit", giving all the money he raises to WFP – and is already making a difference.

WFP can vouch that rice purchased with FreeRice donations has helped feed refugees from Myanmar sheltering in Bangladesh. Our own website currently carries a video (http://www.wfp.org/english/?ModuleID=137&Key=2740) showing this rice being distributed to the refugees and includes a quote from an extremely grateful aid worker. More rice is being purchased for pregnant and nursing women in Cambodia and school children in Uganda – all less than six months after FreeRice was launched.

This Blog, our website’s special FreeRice section (http://www.wfp.org/english/?n=681) and, ultimately, the hungry children in Bangladesh, Cambodia and Uganda all represent irrefutable evidence that FreeRice does donate rice to the World Food Programme.</blockquote>
Where's the accountability and transparency? What's to prevent him from donating a fraction of the volume of rice that he <em>should</em> donate? That's [exactly the case as my colleagues have helped prove](node/207). Again, you and the rest of the organization are deceived--FreeRice donates just enough to maintain the WFP's endorsement while retaining the rest of the surplus/profits for its brilliant administrator (That's why FreeRice's FAQ claims that FreeRice keeps no profits--the reason is that the profits go into Mr. Breen's already-deep pockets).

Another flawed defense is your claim that because Mr. Breen runs FreeRice (although "it's true that he is not registered as a charity") "at no profit", he gives "all the money he raises to WFP". If that's the case, why does it matter if one answers correctly? Do advertisers refuse to pay if the Clicker (as we'll call him/her) answers incorrectly? How would they know, without scavenging through the Clicker's cookies, which is pretty difficult considering the ads are served from a separate domain? If FreeRice donates all of the money it raises, it would not matter if Clickers answered incorrectly. But it does matter. Hence, you are deceived into believing the lies you spill.</li></ol>
<h3>Deceptive, But Not a Scam?</h3>
So you claim that because rice is being donated to pregnant women in Uganda, FreeRice is clearly not a scam, right? And if [Kaiser Permanente](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaiser_Permanente) (Link provided if you aren't aware of the American organization) provides service to only clients of a certain demographic when it should provide for everyone in need, it is also clearly not a scam, right? By the same argument, if Kaiser were to do that, at least it is doing something, although it is doing only a fraction of its pledged amount of service! Do tell me that FreeRice is undoubtedly legitimate because I want to know why you think so. An organization that profits off widespread deception is not legitimate in my book.
<h3>Stealing from the Affluent to Give to the Poor</h3>
Our discussion clearly begs the question: even if millions of grains of rice were transparently and legitimately transferred to the hands of the underprivileged, we are still left with the question of where the rice is coming from. Clearly, in the short run, for one person to have rice, another must lose an equal amount of the same rice. Hence, the whole organization (the WFP) just purportedly buys rice from the affluent (those who would otherwise be able to pay for rice at the world market price) in order to put that rice into the hands of the impoverished. Is this just, or is this just a fragment from the age of failed communism (last century)? Regardless of the generally benevolent intent of the organization, the execution and methodology is inherently flawed, as dictated by the laws of economics.
<h3>So What Should Be Done?</h3>
The flaw that prevents a world-wide correction is a flaw in policy. Agricultural subsidies in the world's wealthiest nations artifically lower the world price for crops, the production of which developing nations (by definition the regions where impoverished people disproportionately live) have an innate comparative advantage in. Hence, by paying poor and ineffective/inefficient farmers undeserved subsidies, governments of the world's most advanced economies (the United States, Europe and Japan) are keeping third-world countries perpetually at the heels of their wealthier colonizers. Obviously, the first, easiest and most effective solution to world hunger is to eliminate agricultural subsidies and trade barriers, allowing farmers worldwide access to a large market from which to derive a reasonable living.

That change of policy is at the government level, but the willing organization (such as the WFP) can be just as effective. Instead of giving the developing nations fish to eat, thus keeping them forever dependent on foreign pity, teach them <em>how</em> to fish. Share with them the modern methods of food production; lease farm equipment to them; let them develop an economy to which their climates, regions and types of labor are well adapted--agriculture.
<h3>One Last Thing</h3>
If you earn 50 Euros/hour and you just lavished half an hour imploring me to "withdraw" the Autoclicker from my blog and to "stop encouraging people to use it", that's 25 Euros = 37.98 Dollars = 8.1 million grains of rice that could have been donated to feed hungry people. In other words, that's 8,000 people that you left hungry for a day. Oh yes, I do thank you for your time to come here to comment on my work, though.
