---
layout: post
title: Wells Fargo's Big Bet
created: 1223175373
categories: []
---
With good signs that the Market Rescue Bill will pass the following afternoon, Wells Fargo made public its oversize bid for Wachovia, confident that we taxpayers will bear most of the burden of Wachovia's bad debts. Although Wells Fargo claims that it had been in discussions with Wachovia for a while about a merger, before the discussions were concluded the FDIC decided to back Citigroup's acquisition of Wachovia for an obscenely low sum.

This conflict begs a few provocative questions:
<ol>
<li>Considering the fact that Wells Fargo offered a significant sum for Wachovia (several times more than Citigroup offered), which has enormous stacks of bad debts in its books, how much was Wells betting that we taxpayers cover? Wachovia with its bad debts is worth nowhere as much as Wells offered. That is why it originally agreed on the one dollar per share deal with Citigroup.</li>
<li>Based off the above, could it be that Wells did not want to solidify its deal until it saw good prospects for the Bill, and hence stayed low-key because of that?</li>
<li>Should Wells or Citi earn the right to absorb Wachovia? Considering that Wells did not want to make an official offer until conditions became more certain (the rescue bill) but Citi made an outright offer to acquire Wachovia, who legally deserves to have it?</li>
<li>From a prudential standpoint, Wells would be a better parent for Wachovia. It is among the few that did not get involved in the sub-prime mortgage market that crushed many formerly-formidable foes and posted consistent quarterly profits even as its rivals bled money quarter after quarter. In contrast, Citigroup has already posted tens of billions of write-downs and losses in its recent four quarters, and it's questionable how much more bad debts it can absorb. Of course, this all depends on how helpful the rescue bill is, but the past history hints to the effectiveness of Citi and Wells' management and the post-merger effectiveness of Wachovia's controllers.</li>
<li>Did Wells Fargo really begin discussions with Wachovia prior to the FDIC's announcement of the Citigroup deal as they assert they did? Why would Wachovia agree to a one dollar per share deal with Citigroup if it had simultaneous alternate discussions with Wells, which presumably offered at least a sixth as much as it is offering now? Certainly Wachovia would not choose the lesser of the two offers.</li>
<li>Was there any insider trading of Wachovia shares? Citigroup offered one dollar per share for Wachovia, which is significantly better than the deal Washington Mutual stockholders got when the FDIC seized its assets and sold them to JP Morgan. It's strange that Wachovia shares would trade nearly 300% more than the price Citigroup and Wachovia agreed on prior to the announcement of the Wells Fargo bid. Either Wachovia shareholders (a) knew that Wells was planning to publicize its significantly higher bid, (b) believed that Citigroup would raise its bid five-fold although it had already come to a binding agreement on the transaction at one dollar per share, or (c) were completely ignorant. (c) is not believable considering the enormous resources Wall Street has access to; (b) is not plausible because after agreeing to a binding agreement, Citigroup would find no advantage in raising five-fold (or greater) its offer for Wachovia (unless it just wants to please Wachovia shareholders, but it can't afford to play that game right now); hence (a) is my conclusion: there was significant trades based on insider knowledge, but that's just my speculation, hence why this is left as a question, not a definite answer.</li>
</ol>
What do you guys think about this banking mess?
